# Code from: *Accounting for imperfect detection to reveal the importance of concurrent and past environmental conditions for community stability*

## General description

This is the code for a paper modeling community stability in which we employed a two-stage modeling process to account for imperfect detection and then explored how environmental variables at multiple time scales influence community stability. We performed this modeling process on four case studies available from published sources:

| Dataset                                          | Years     | Number of sites | Number of species | Source                                                                                                              |
|--------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Santa Barbara Channel LTER fish                  | 2000-2022 | 43              | 63                | [Reed and Miller 2022](https://portal.edirepository.org/nis/mapbrowse?scope=knb-lter-sbc&identifier=17&revision=37) |
| Konza Prairie LTER passerine birds               | 1981-2009 | 11              | 78                | [Boyle 2023](https://portal.edirepository.org/nis/mapbrowse?packageid=knb-lter-knz.26.12)                           |
| Sevilleta LTER grasshoppers                      | 1992-2019 | 60              | 46                | [Lightfoot 2021](https://portal.edirepository.org/nis/mapbrowse?packageid=knb-lter-sev.106.214969)                  |
| Petrified Forest National Park understory plants | 2007-2022 | 70              | 84                | [Swan and Ploughe 2023](https://irma.nps.gov/DataStore/Reference/Profile/2300890)                                   |

## Folder structure

### code

This folder is broken up by coding outcome, including custom functions we created for this project, data prep, model code and wrapper scripts for JAGS, and code to recreate visualizations.

#### 00_functions

This folder contains several scripts that are sourced in other scripts in order to perform custom functions we created for this project.

#### 01_data_prep

This folder contains scripts for compiling data for each case study and making it into list format for each JAGS model. This folder is subdivided by case study and then each case study contains two data prep scripts: one for preparing data for the model acounting for imperfect detection; the other preparing data for the beta regression model

#### 02_models

This folder contains models and their wrapper scripts for running each of the two models (MSAM/MSOM and beta regression) for each case study. It also contains template models for both of these modeling steps. This folder is first divided into the first and second models (MSAM/MSOM & beta regression) and then each of these has subfolders for each case study. These subfolders also contain templates that can be applied to new datasets. Further, each case study also includes a wrapper script that uses the `jagsUI` package to run JAGS in R

#### 03_visualizations

This folder contains code to recreate the figures in the main text and many of the figures in the Supporting Information. Which figures are created by each script are indicated in the name of that script.

### data_raw

This folder contains the raw data (if it was small enough to upload to GitHub) for each of the four case studies. When raw data were too large, we provide a link to the data repositories where we accessed data.This folder is subdivided by case study.

### data_output

This folder contains all data generated by our data prep scripts and which we used for running models and generating summaries for each model. This folder is subdivided by case study and then by which model data prep process generated the data (MSAM/MSOM or beta regression). Further, we have subdivided those folders into whether the data generated is the data list used to run the JAGS model or whether it is additional data (e.g., a tidy dataset of all data for that model) used later in summarizing and linking site and species data back to model outputs.

### model_summaries

This folder contains all the resulting model summaries generated by converged JAGS models that we used in results and figures. This folder is broken up by case study. Within each case study subfolder, we have provided summaries of both the main model results (e.g., covariate effects estimates, estimates of stability metrics) as well as summaries of other parameters used to interpret findings.
